''' $Header
'''
.de Sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Greek uppercase omega is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
'br\}
.TH XNTPD 8 LOCAL
.SH NAME
xntpd - Network Time Protocol daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xntpd
[
.B -abdm
] [
.B -c
.I conffile
] [
.B -e
.I authdelay
] [
.B -f
.I driftfile
] [
.B -k
.I keyfile
] [
.B -p
.I pidfile
] [
.B -r
.I broadcastdelay
] [
.B -s
.I statsdir
] [
.B -t
.I trustedkey
] [
.B -v
.I variable
] [
.B -V
.I variable
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xntpd
is a daemon which sets and maintains a Unix system time\-of\-day in
agreement with Internet standard time servers.
.I xntpd
is a complete implementation of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) version
3 standard, as defined by RFC 1305, but also retains compatability with
version 1 and 2 servers as defined by RFC 1059 and RFC 1119,
respectively.
.I xntpd
does all computations in fixed point arithmetic and requires no floating
point code. The computations done in the protocol and clock adjustment
code are carried out with high precision and with attention to the
details which might introduce systematic bias into the computations, to
try to maintain an accuracy suitable for synchronizing with even the
most precise external time source.
.PP
Ordinarily,
.I xntpd
reads its configuration from a configuration file at startup time. The
default configuration file name is
.IR /etc/ntp.conf,
although this may be overridden from the command line. It is also
possible to specify a working, although limited,
.I xntpd
configuration entirely on the command line, obviating the need for a
configuration file. This may be particularly appropriate when
.I xntpd
is to be configured as a broadcast or multicast client, with all peers
being determined by listening to broadcasts at run time. Various
internal
.I xntpd
variables can be displayed and configuration options altered while the
daemon is running through use of the
.IR ntpq (8)
and
.IR xntpdc (8)
programs.
.PP
The daemon can operate in any of several modes, including symmetric
active/passive, client/server and broadcast/multicast. A
broadcast/multicast client can automatically discover remote servers,
compute one-way delay correction factors and comfigure itself
automatically. This makes it possible to deploy a fleet of workstations
without specifying a configuration file or configuration details
specific to its environment.
.PP
The following command line arguments are understood by
.I xntpd
(see the configuration file description for a more complete functional
description):
.Ip -a 8
run in \*(L"authenticate\*(R" mode
.Ip -b 8
listen for broadcast NTP and sync to this if available
.Ip -c 8
specify an alternate configuration file
.Ip -d 8
specify debugging mode. This flag may occur multiple times, with each
occurance indicating greater detail of display.
.Ip -e 8
specify the time (in seconds) it takes to compute the NTP encryption
field on this computer
.Ip -f driftfile 8
specify the location of the drift file
.Ip -k 8
specify the location of the file which contains the NTP authentication
keys
.Ip -m 8
listen for multicast messages and synchronize to them if available
(requires multicast kernel)
.Ip -p 8
specify the name of the file to record the daemon's process id
.Ip -r 8
ordinarily, the daemon automatically compensates for the network delay
between the broadcast/multicast server and the client; if the
calibration procedure fails, use the specified the default delay (in
seconds)
.Ip -s 8
specify the directory to be used for creating statistics files
.Ip -t trustedkey 8
add a key number to the trusted key list
.Ip -v 8
add a system variable
.Ip -V 8
add a system variable listed by default
.SH "CONFIGURATION OPTIONS"
.I xntpd 's
configuration file format is similar to other Unix configuration files.
Comments begin with a \*(L"#\*(R" character and extend to the end of the
line. Blank lines are ignored. Configuration commands consist of an
initial keyword followed by a list of arguments, some of which may be
optional, separated by whitespace. These commands may not be continued
over multiple lines. Arguments may be host names, host addresses written
in numeric, dotted\-quad form, integers, floating point numbers (when
specifying times in seconds) and text strings. Optional arguments are
delimited by \*(L"[]\*(R" in the following descriptions, while
alternatives are separated by \*(L"|\*(R".
.PP
.B peer
.I host_address
[
.B key
.I #
] [
.B version
.I #
] [
.B prefer
]
.br
.B server
.I host_address
[
.B key
.I #
] [
.B version
.I #
] [
.B prefer
]
.br
.B broadcast
.I host_address
[
.B key
.I #
] [
.B version
.I #
] [
.B ttl
.I #
]
.PP
These three commands specify various time servers to be used and/or time
services to be provided. The
.B peer
command specifies that the local server is to operate in \*(L"symmetric
active\*(R" mode with the remote server
.I host_address
named in the command. In this mode the local server can be synchronized
to the remote server and, in addition, the remote server can be
synchronized by the local server. This is useful in a network of servers
where, depending on various failure scenarios, either the local or
remote server host may be the better source of time. The
.B server
command specifies that the local server is to operate in
\*(L"client\*(R" mode with the remote server named in the command. In
this mode the local server can be synchronized to the remote server, but
the remote server can never be synchronized to the local server. The
.B broadcast
command specifies that the local server is to operate in
\*(L"broadcast\*(R" mode where the local server sends periodic broadcast
messages to a client population at the broadcast/multicast address named
in the command. Ordinarily, this specification applies only to the local
server operating as a transmitter; for operation as a broadcast client,
see the
.B broadcastclient
or
.B multicastclient
commands elsewhere in this document. In this mode the
.I host_address
is usually the broadcast address on [one of] the local network[s] or a
multicast address assigned to NTP. The Numbers Czar has assigned the
address 224.0.1.1 to NTP; this is presently the only number that should
be used. Note that the use of multicast features requires a multicast
kernel, which is not yet ubiquitous in vendor products.
.PP
The
.B key
option, when included, indicates that all packets sent to the address
are to include authentication fields encrypted using the specified key
number (the range of which is that of an unsigned 32 bit integer). The
default is to not include an encryption field. The
.B version
option allows one to specify the version number to be used for outgoing
NTP packets. Versions 1, 2, and 3 are the choices, version 3 is the
default. The
.B prefer
option marks the host as a preferred host. All other things being equal,
this host will be chosen for synchronization among a set of correctly
operating hosts. The
.B ttl
option is used only with the broadcast mode. It specifies the time-to-
live (TTL) to use on multicast packets. Selection of the proper value,
which defaults to 127, is something of a black art and must be
coordinated with the network admistrator(s).
.PP
.B broadcastclient
.PP
This directs the local server to listen for broadcast messages on the
local network, in order to discover other servers on the same subnet.
Upon hearing a broadcast message for the first time, the local server
measures the nominal network delay using a brief client/server exchange
with the remote server, then enters the \*(L"broadcastclient\*(R" mode,
in which it listens for and synchronizes to succeeding broadcast
messages. Note that, in order to avoid accidental or malicious
disruption in this mode, both the local and remote servers must operate
using authentication and the same trusted key and key identifier.
.PP
.B multicastclient
[
.I IP address ...
]
.PP
This command is used in the same way as the
.IR broadcastclient
command, but operates using IP multicasting. Support for this function
requires a multicast kernel and the use of authentication. If one or
more IP addresses are given, the server joins the respective multicast
group(s). If none are given, the IP address assigned to NTP (224.0.1.1)
is assumed.
.PP
.B driftfile
.I filename
.PP
This command specifies the name of the file used to record the frequency
offset of the local clock oscillator. If the file exists, it is read at
startup in order to set the initial frequency offset and then updated
once per hour with the current offset computed by the daemon. If the
file does not exist or this command is not given, the initial frequency
offset is assumed zero. In this case, it may take some hours for the
frequency to stabilize and the residual timing errors to subside. The
file contains a single floating point value equal to the offset in
parts-per-million (ppm). Note that the file is updated by first writing
the current drift value into a temporary file and then using
.IR rename (3)
to replace the old version. This implies that
.I xntpd
must have write permission for the directory the drift file is located
in, and that file system links, symbolic or otherwise, should probably
be avoided.
.PP
.B enable auth|bclient|pll|pps|monitor|stats
[
.I ...
]
.PP
Provides a way to enable various server options. Flags not mentioned are
unaffected. The \*(L"auth\*(R" flag causes the server to synchronize
with unconfigured peers only if the peer has been correctly
authenticated using a trusted key and key identifier. The default for
this flag is disable (off). The \*(L"bclient\*(R" flag causes the server
to listen for a message from a broadcast or multicast server, following
which an association is automatically instantiated for that server. The
default for this flag is disable (off). The \*(L"pll\*(R" flag enables
the server to adjust its local clock, with default enable (on). If not
set, the local clock free-runs at its intrinsic time and frequency
offset. This flag is useful in case the local clock is controlled by
some other device or protocol and NTP is used only to provide
synchronization to other clients. The \*(L"pps\*(R" flag enables the PPS
signal, if available, with default enable (on). No harm is done if this
signal or the kernel support for it are not available. This flag is
useful mainly for maintenance. The \*(L"monitor\*(R" flag enables the
monitoring facility (see elsewhere), with default disable (off). The
\*(L"stats\*(R" flag enables statistics facility filegen (see
description elsewhere.), with default enable (on).
.PP
.B disable auth|bclient|pll|pps|monitor|stats
[
.I ...
]
.PP
Provides a way to disable various server options. Flags not mentioned
are unaffected. The flags presently available are described under the
enable command.

.SH "AUTHENTICATION OPTIONS"
.PP
.B keys
.I filename
.PP
This command specifies the name of a file which contains the encryption
keys and key identifiers used by
.I xntpd
when operating in authenticated mode. The format of this file is
described later in this document.
.PP
.B trustedkey
.I #
[
.I "# ..."
]
.PP
This command is used to specify the encryption key identifiers which are
trusted for the purposes of authenticating peers suitable for
sychonization. The authentication procedures require that both the local
and remote servers share the same key and key identifier for this
purpose, although different keys can be used with different servers. The
arguments are 32 bit unsigned integers. Note, however, that NTP key 0 is
fixed and globally known. If meaningful authentication is to be
performed the 0 key should not be trusted.
.PP
.B requestkey
.I #
.PP
This command specifies the key identifier to use with the
.IR xntpdc (8)
program, which is useful to diagnose and repair problems that affect
.IR xntpd (8)
operation. The operation of the
.I xntpdc
program are specific to this particular implementation of xntpd and can
be expected to work only with this and previous versions of the daemon.
Requests from a remote xntpdc program which affect the state of the
local server must be authenticated, which requires bot the remote
program and local server share a common key and key identifier. The
argument to this command is a 32 bit unsigned integer. If no
.B requestkey
command is included in the configuration file, or if the keys don't
match, such requests will be ignored.
.PP
.B controlkey
.I #
.PP
This command specifies the key identifier to use with the
.IR ntpq (8)
program, which is useful to diagnose and repair problems that affect
.IR xntpd (8)
operation. The operation of the
.IR ntpq
program and
.I xntpd
conform to those specified in RFC 1305. Requests from a remote
.I ntpq
program which affect the state of the local server must be
authenticated, which requires bot the remote program and local server
share a common key and key identifier. The argument to this command is a
32 bit unsigned integer. If no
.B requestkey
command is included in the configuration file, or if the keys don't
match, such requests will be ignored.
.PP
.B authdelay
.I seconds
.PP
Indicates the amount of time it takes to encrypt an NTP authentication
field on the local computer. This value is used to correct transmit
timestamps when the authentication is used on outgoing packets. The
value usually lies somewhere in the range 0.0001 seconds to 0.003
seconds, though it is very dependent on the CPU speed of the host
computer. The value is usually computed using the
.I authspeed
program included with the distribution.
.SH "ACCESS CONTROL OPTIONS"
.B restrict
.I address
[
.B mask
.I numeric_mask
] [
.I flag
] [
.I ...
]
.PP
.I xntpd
implements a general purpose address\-and\-mask based restriction list.
The list is sorted by address and by mask, and the list is searched in
this order for matches, with the last match found defining the
restriction flags associated with the incoming packets. The source
address of incoming packets is used for the match, with the 32 bit
address being and'ed with the mask associated with the restriction entry
and then compared with the entry's address (which has also been and'ed
with the mask) to look for a match. The \*(L"mask\*(R" argument defaults
to 255.255.255.255, meaning that the \*(L"address\*(R" is treated as the
address of an individual host. A default entry (address 0.0.0.0, mask
0.0.0.0) is always included and, given the sort algorithm, is always the
first entry in the list. Note that, while \*(L"address\*(R" is normally
given in dotted\-quad format, the text string \*(L"default\*(R", with no
mask option, may be used to indicate the default entry.
.PP
In the current implementation, flags always restrict access, i.e. an
entry with no flags indicates that free access to the server is to be
given. The flags are not orthogonal, in that more restrictive flags will
often make less restrictive ones redundant. The flags can generally be
classed into two catagories, those which restrict time service and those
which restrict informational queries and attempts to do run time
reconfiguration of the server. One or more of the following flags may be
specified:
.Ip ignore 10
Ignore all packets from hosts which match this entry. If this flag is
specified neither queries nor time server polls will be responded to.
.Ip noquery 10
Ignore all NTP mode 6 and 7 packets (i.e. information queries and
configuration requests) from the source. Time service is not affected.
.Ip nomodify 10
Ignore all NTP mode 6 and 7 packets which attempt to modify the state of
the server (i.e. run time reconfiguration). Queries which return
information are permitted.
.Ip notrap 10
Decline to provide mode 6 control message trap service to matching
hosts. The trap service is a subsystem of the mode 6 control message
protocol which is intended for use by remote event logging programs.
.Ip lowpriotrap 10
Declare traps set by matching hosts to be low priority. The number of
traps a server can maintain is limited (the current limit is 3). Traps
are usually assigned on a first come, first served basis, with later
trap requestors being denied service. This flag modifies the assignment
algorithm by allowing low priority traps to be overridden by later
requests for normal priority traps.
.Ip noserve 10
Ignore NTP packets whose mode is other than 6 or 7. In effect, time
service is denied, though queries may still be permitted.
.Ip nopeer 10
Provide stateless time service to polling hosts, but do not allocate
peer memory resources to these hosts even if they otherwise might be
considered useful as future synchronization partners.
.Ip notrust 10
Treat these hosts normally in other respects, but never use them as
synchronization sources.
.Ip limited 10
These hosts are subject to limitation of number of clients from the same
net. Net in this context refers to the IP notion of net (class A, class
B, class C, etc.). Only the first \*(L"client_limit\*(R" hosts that have
shown up at the server and that have been active during the last
\*(L"client_limit_period\*(R" seconds are accepted. Requests from other
clients from the same net are rejected. Only time request packets are
taken into account. \*(L"Private\*(R", \*(L"control\*(R", and
\*(L"broadcast\*(R" packets are not subject to client limitation and
therefore are not contributing to client count. History of clients is
kept using the monitoring capability of
.I xntpd .
Thus, monitoring is active as long as there is a restriction entry with
the \*(L"limited\*(R" flag. The default value for \*(L"client_limit\*(R"
is 3. The default value for \*(L"client_limit_period\*(R" is 3600
seconds.
.Ip ntpport 10
This is actually a match algorithm modifier, rather than a restriction
flag. Its presence causes the restriction entry to be matched only if
the source port in the packet is the standard NTP UDP port (123). Both
\*(L"ntpport\*(R" and non\-\*(L"ntpport\*(R" may be specified. The
\*(L"ntpport\*(R" is considered more specific and is sorted later in the
list.
.PP
Default restriction list entries, with the flags \*(L"ignore,
ntpport\*(R", for each of the local host's interface addresses are
inserted into the table at startup to prevent the server from attempting
to synchronize to its own time. A default entry is also always present,
though if it is otherwise unconfigured no flags are associated with the
default entry (i.e. everything besides your own NTP server is
unrestricted).
.PP
The restriction facility was added to allow the current access policies
of the time servers running on the NSFnet backbone to be implemented
with
.I xntpd
as well. While this facility may be otherwise useful for keeping
unwanted or broken remote time servers from affecting your own, it
should not be considered an alternative to the standard NTP
authentication facility. Source address based restrictions are easily
circumvented by a determined cracker.
.PP
.B clientlimit
.I limit
.PP
Sets \*(L"client_limit\*(R" to \*(L"limit\*(R", allows configuration of
client limitation policy. This variable defines the number of clients
from the same network that are allowed to use the server.
.PP
.B clientperiod
.I period
.PP
Sets \*(L"client_limit_period\*(R", allows configuration of client
limitation policy. This variable specifies the number of seconds after
which a client is considered inactive and thus no longer is counted for
client limit restriction.
.SH "MONITORING OPTIONS"
.PP
.B statsdir
.I /directory path/
.PP
Indicates the full path of a directory where statistics files should be
created (see below). This keyword allows the (otherwise constant)
filegen filename prefix to be modified for file generation sets used for
handling statistics logs (see
.B filegen
statement below).
.PP
.B statistics
.IR name \.\.\.
.PP
Enables writing of statistics records. Currently, three kinds of
statistics are supported.
.Ip loopstats 10
enables recording of loop filter statistics information. Each update of
the local clock outputs a line of the following form to the file
generation set named \*(L"loopstats\*(R":
.PP
.RS 5
48773 10847.650 0.0001307 17.3478 2
.RE

.RS 10
The first two fields show the date (Modified Julian Day) and time
(seconds and fraction past UTC midnight). The next three fields show
time offset in seconds, frequency offset in parts-per-million and time
constant of the clock-discipline algorithm at each update of the clock.
.RE
.Ip peerstats 10
enables recording of peer statistics information. This includes
statistics records of all peers of a NTP server and of the 1-pps signal,
where present and configured. Each valid update appends a line of the
following form to the current element of a file generation set named
\*(L"peerstats\*(R":
.PP
.RS 5
48773 10847.650 127.127.4.1 9714 -0.001605 0.00000 0.00142
.RE

.RS 10
The first two fields show the date (Modified Julian Day) and time
(seconds and fraction past UTC midnight). The next two fields show the
peer address in dotted-quad notation and status, respectively. The
status field is encoded in hex in the format described in Appendix A of
the NTP specification RFC 1305. The final three fields show the offset,
delay and dispersion, all in seconds.
.RE
.Ip clockstats 10
enables recording of clock driver statistics information. Each update
received from a clock driver outputs a line of the following form to the
file generation set named \*(L"clockstats\*(R":
.PP
.RS 5
49213 525.624 127.127.4.1 93 226 00:08:29.606 D
.RE

.RS 10
The first two fields show the date (Modified Julian Day) and time
(seconds and fraction past UTC midnight). The next field shows the clock
address in dotted-quad notation, The final field shows the last timecode
received from the clock in decoded ASCII format, where meaningful. In
some clock drivers a good deal of additional information can be gathered
and displayed as well. See information specific to each clock for
further details.
.RE
.PP
Statistic files are managed using file generation sets (see
.B filegen
below). The information obtained by enabling statistics recording allows
analysis of temporal properties of a
.I xntpd
server. It is usually only useful to primary servers or maybe main
campus servers.
.PP
.B filegen
.I name
[
.B file
.I filename
] [
.B type
.I typename
] [
.B flag
.I flagval
] [
.BR link \| nolink
] [
.BR enable \| disable
]
.PP
Configures setting of generation file set
.IR name .
Generation file sets provide a means for handling files that are
continously growing during the lifetime of a server. Server statistics
are a typical example for such files. Generation file sets provide
access to a set of files used to store the actual data. At any time at
most one element of the set is being written to. The
.I type
given specifies when and how data will be directed to a new element of
the set. This way, information stored in elements of a file set that are
currently unused are available for administrational operations without
the risc of desturbing the operation of
.I xntpd .
(Most important: they can be removed to free space for new data
produced.) Filenames of set members are built from three elements.
.Ip prefix 10
This is a constant filename path. It is not subject to modifications via
the
.B filegen
statement. It is defined by the server, usually specified as a compile
time constant. It may, however, be configurable for individual file
generation sets via other commands. For example, the prefix used with
"loopstats" and "peerstats" filegens can be configured using the
.B statsdir
statement explained above.
.Ip filename 10
This string is directly concatenated to the
.I prefix
mentioned above (no intervening \*(L'/\*(R' (slash)). This can be
modified using the \*(L"file\*(R" argument to the \*(L"filegen\*(R"
statement. No \*(L"..\*(R" elements are allowed in this component to
prevent filenames referring to parts outside the filesystem hierarchy
denoted by \*(L"prefix\*(R".
.Ip suffix 10
This part is reflects individual elements of a file set. It is generated
according to the
.I type
of a file set as explained below.
.PP
A file generation set is characterized by its type. The following types
are supported:
.Ip none 10
The file set is actually a single plain file.
.Ip pid 10
One element of file set is used per incarnation of a
.I xntpd
server. This type does not perform any changes to file set members
during runtime, however it provides an easy way of seperating files
belonging to different
.I xntpd
server incarnations. The set member filename is built by appending a dot
(\*(L'.\*(R') to concatentated \*(L"prefix\*(R" and \*(L"filename\*(R"
strings, and appending the decimal representation of the process id of
the
.I xntpd
server process.
.Ip day 10
One file generation set element is created per day. The term
.I day
is based on
.IR UTC .
A day is defined as the period between 00:00 and 24:00 UTC. The file set
member suffix consists of a dot \*(L".\*(R" and a day specification in
the form
.RI < YYYYMMDD >.
.I YYYY
is a 4 digit year number (e.g. 1992).
.I MM
is a two digit month number.
.I DD
is a two digit day number. Thus, all information written at December
10th, 1992 would end up in a file named
\*(L"<prefix><filename>.19921210\*(R".
.Ip week 10
Any file set member contains data related to a certain week of a year.
The term
.I week
is definied by computing \*(L"day of year\*(R" modulo 7. Elements of
such a file generation set are distinguished by appending the following
suffix to the file set filename base: A dot, a four digit year number,
the letter \*(L"W\*(R", and a two digit week number. For example,
information from Jamuary, 10th 1992 would end up in a file with suffix
\*(L".1992W1\*(R".
.Ip month 10
One generation file set element is generated per month. The file name
suffix consists of a dot, a four digit year number, and a two digit
month.
.Ip year 10
One generation file elment is generated per year. The filename suffix
consists of a dot and a 4 digit year number.
.Ip age 10
This type of file generation sets changes to a new element of the file
set every 24 hours of server operation. The filename suffix consists of
a dot, the letter \*(L"a\*(R", and an eight digit number. This number is
taken to be the number of seconds the server is running at the start of
the corresponding 24 hour period.
.PP
Information is only written to a file generation set when this set is
\*(L"enabled\*(R". Output is prevented by specifying \*(L"disabled\*(R".
.PP
It is convenient to be able to access the
.I current
element of a file generation set by a fixed name. This feature is
enabled by specifying \*(L"link\*(R" and disabled using
\*(L"nolink\*(R". If \*(L"link\*(R" is specified, a hard link from the
current file set element to a file without suffix is created. When there
is already a file with this name and the number of links of this file is
one, it is renamed appending a dot, the letter \*(L"C\*(R", and the pid
of the
.I xntpd
server process. When the number of links is greater than one, the file
is unlinked. This allows the current file to be accessed by a constant
name.
.SH "MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS"
.PP
.B precision
.I #
.PP
This command specifies the nominal precision of the local clock. The
value is an integer approximately equal to the base 2 logarithm of the
local timekeeping precision in seconds. Normally, the daemon determines
the precision automatically at startup, so this command is necessary
only in special cases when the precision cannot be determined
automatically.
.PP
.B broadcastdelay
.I seconds
.PP
The broadcast and multicast modes require a special calibration to
determine the network delay between the local and remote servers.
Ordinarily, this is done automatically by the initial protocol exchanges
between the local and remote servers. In some cases, the calibration
procedure may fail due to network or server access controls, for
example. This command specifies the default delay to be used under these
circumstances. Typically (for Ethernet), a number between 0.003 and
0.007 seconds is appropriate. The default when this command is not used
is 0.004 seconds.
.PP
.B trap
.I host_address
[
.B port
.I port_number
] [
.B interface
.I interface_addess
]
.PP
This command configures a trap receiver at the given host address and
port number for sending messages with the specified local interface
address. If the port number is unspecified a value of 18447 is used. If
the interface address is not specified the message is sent with a source
address which is that of the local interface the message is sent
through. Note that on a multihomed host the interface used may vary from
time to time with routing changes.
.PP
The trap receiver will generally log event messages and other
information from the server in a log file. While such monitor programs
may also request their own trap dynamically, configuring a trap receiver
will ensure that no messages are lost when the server is started.
.PP
.B setvar
.I variable
.I [default]
.PP
This command adds an additional system variable. These variables can be
used to distribute additional information such as the access policy. If
the variable of the from <name>=<value> is followed by the
.I default
keyword the variable will be listed as part of the default system
variables (
.I ntpq rv
command). These additional variables serve informational purposes only.
They are not related to the protocol other that they can be listed. The
known protocol variables will always overide any variables defined via
the
.I setvar
mechanism.
.PP
There are three special variables that contain the names of all variable
of the same group. The
.I sys_var_list
holds the names of all system variables. The
.I peer_var_list
holds the names of all peer variables and the
.I clock_var_list
hold the names of the reference clock variables.
.PP
.B monitor yes|no
.B authenticate yes|no
.PP
These commands have been superseded by the
.B enable
and
.B disable
commands. They are listed here for historical purposes.
.SH "AUTHENTICATION KEY FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The NTP standard specifies an extension allowing verification of the
authenticity of received NTP packets, and to provide an indication of
authenticity in outgoing packets. This is implemented in
.I xntpd
using the DES or MD5 algorithms to compute a digital signature, or
message-digest. The specification allows any one of possibly 4 billion
keys, numbered with 32 bit key identifiers, to be used to authenticate
an association. The servers involved in an association must agree on the
key and key identifier used to authenticate their data, though they must
each learn the key and key identifer independently. In the case of DES,
the keys are 56 bits long with, depending on type, a parity check on
each byte. In the case of MD5, the keys are 64 bits (8 bytes).
.I xntpd
reads its keys from a file specified using the
.B -k
command line option or the
.B keys
statement in the configuration file. While key number 0 is fixed by the
NTP standard (as 56 zero bits) and may not be changed, one or more of
the keys numbered 1 through 15 may be arbitrarily set in the keys file.
.PP
The key file uses the same comment conventions as the configuration
file. Key entries use a fixed format of the form
.Ip "" 5
.I "keyno type key"
.PP
where \*(L"keyno\*(R" is a positive integer, \*(L"type\*(R" is a single
character which defines the format the key is given in, and
\*(L"key\*(R" is the key itself.
.PP
The key may be given in one of three different formats, controlled by
the \*(L"type\*(R" character. The three key types, and corresponding
formats, are listed following.
.Ip "S" 5
The \*(L"key\*(R" is a 64 bit hexadecimal number in the format specified
in the DES document, that is the high order 7 bits of each octet are
used to form the 56 bit key while the low order bit of each octet is
given a value such that odd parity is maintained for the octet. Leading
zeroes must be specified (i.e. the key must be exactly 16 hex digits
long) and odd parity must be maintained. Hence a zero key, in standard
format, would be given as
.I 0101010101010101 .
.Ip "N" 5
The \*(L"key\*(R" is a 64 bit hexadecimal number in the format specified
in the NTP standard. This is the same as the DES format except the bits
in each octet have been rotated one bit right so that the parity bit is
now the high order bit of the octet. Leading zeroes must be specified
and odd parity must be maintained. A zero key in NTP format would be
specified as
.I 8080808080808080
.Ip "A" 5
The \*(L"key\*(R" is a 1\-to\-8 character ASCII string. A key is formed
from this by using the lower order 7 bits of the ASCII representation of
each character in the string, with zeroes being added on the right when
necessary to form a full width 56 bit key, in the same way that
encryption keys are formed from Unix passwords.
.Ip "M" 5
The \*(L"key\*(R" is a 1\-to\-8 character ASCII string, using the MD5
authentication scheme. Note that both the keys and the authentication
schemes (DES or MD5) must be identical between a set of peers sharing
the same key number.
.PP
One of the keys may be chosen,
by way of the configuration file
.B requestkey
statement, to authenticate run time configuration requests made using
the
.IR xntpdc (8)
program. The latter program obtains the key from the terminal as a
password, so it is generally appropriate to specify the key chosen to be
used for this purpose in ASCII format.
.SH PRIMARY CLOCK SUPPORT
.I xntpd
can be optionally compiled to include support for a number of types of
reference clocks. A reference clock will generally (though not always)
be a radio timecode receiver which is synchronized to a source of
standard time such as the services offered by the NRC in Canada and NIST
in the U.S. The interface between the computer and the timecode receiver
is device dependent and will vary, but is often a serial port.
.PP
Support for the various reference clock drivers is conditionally
compiled using the compiler define codes described elsewhere. An attempt
to configure a reference clock when specific support is not available or
the hardware port has not been appropriately configured results in a
scolding remark to the system log file, but is otherwise non hazardous.
.PP
For the purposes of configuration,
.I xntpd
treats reference clocks in a manner analogous to normal NTP peers as
much as possible. Reference clocks are referred to by address, much as a
normal peer is, though an invalid IP address is used to distinguish them
from normal peers. Reference clock addresses are of the form
.I 127.127.t.u
where
.I t
is an integer denoting the clock type and
.I u
indicates the type\-specific unit number. In general, up to four units
of a given clock type can be configured with
.I u
in the range 0\-3; however, there are some drivers where more than one
such unit would not be useful. Reference clocks are
configured using a
.B server
statement in the configuration file where the
.I host_address
is the clock address. The
.I key,
.I version
and
.I ttl
options are not used for reference clock support; however, the
.I prefer
option can be useful to persuade the server to cherish a reference clock
with somewhat more enthusiasm than other reference clocks or peers, if
this is advisable. Clock addresses may generally be used anywhere in the
configuration file a normal IP address can be used, for example, in
.B restrict
statements, although such use would normally be considered strange.
.PP
Reference clock support provides the
.B fudge
command, which can be used to configure reference clocks in special
ways. Following is the generic format that applies to this command
.PP
.B fudge
.I 127.127.t.u
[
.B time1
.I secs
] [
.B time2
.I secs
] [
.B stratum
.I int
] [
.B refid
.I int
] [
.B flag1
.I 0|1
] [
.B flag2
.I 0|1
] [
.B flag3
.I 0|1
] [
.B flag4
.I 0|1
]
.PP
The
.I time1
and
.B time2
options are specified in fixed point seconds and used in some clock
drivers as calibration constants. By convention, and unless indicated
otherwise,
.B time1
is used as a calibration constant to adjust the nominal time offset of a
particular clock to agree with an external standard, such as a precision
PPS signal. The specified offset is in addition to the propagation delay
provided by other means, such as internal DIPswitches. The
.B stratum
option is a number in the range zero to 15 and is used to assign a
nonstandard operating stratum to the clock. The
.B refid
option is an ASCII string in the range one to four characters and is
used to assign a nonstandard reference identifier to the clock. Finally,
the four binary flags
.B flag1,
.B flag2,
.B flag3
and
.B flag4
are used for customizing the clock driver. The interpretation of these
values, and whether they are used at all, is a function of the needs of
the particular clock driver. However, by convention, and unless
indicated otherwise,
.B flag3
is used to attach the ppsclock streams module to the configured driver,
while
.B flag4
is used to enable recording verbose monitoring data to the clockstats
file configured with the
.I filegen
command. Further information on the ppsclock streams module is in the
README file ./kernel directory in the current xntp3 program
distribution. Further information on this feature is available in the
./scripts/stats directory in the same distribution.
.PP
Ordinarily, the stratum of a reference clock is by default zero. Since
the
.I xntpd
daemon adds one to the stratum of each peer, a primary server ordinarily
displays stratum one. In order to provide engineered backups, it is
often useful to specify the reference clock stratum as greater than
zero. The
.B stratum
option is used for this purpose. Also, in cases involving both a
reference clock and a 1-pps discipline signal, it is useful to specify
the reference clock identifier as other than the default, depending on
the driver. The
.I refid
option is used for this purpose. Except where noted, these options apply
to all clock drivers.
.PP
.I xntpd
on Unix machines currently supports several different types of clock
hardware plus a special pseudo\-clock used for backup or when no other
clock source is available. In the case of most of the clock drivers,
support for a 1-pps precision timing signal is available as described in
the README file in the ./doc directory of the xntp3 progam distribution.
The clock drivers, and the addresses used to configure them, are
described in the following:
.PP
.B 127.127.1.u
\- Local synchronization clock driver
.PP
This driver doesn't support an actual clock, but rather allows the
server to synchronize to its own clock, in essence to free-run. This can
be used to run an isolated NTP synchronization subnetwork, where no
standard time source is available, by allowing a free running clock to
appear as if it has external synchronization to other servers. By
running the local clock at an elevated stratum it can also be used to
prevent a server's stratum from rising above a fixed value, thus
allowing a synchronization subnet to synchonize to a single local server
for periods when connectivity to the primary servers is lost. Note that
the server, when synchronized to the local clock, will advertise a
stratum one greater than the stratum assigned to the local clock.
The stratum for this driver is set at 3 by default, but can be changed
by configuration commands and/or the xntpdc utility. The reference ID is
"LCL" by default, but can be changed by configuration commands and/or
the xntpdc utility. *NEVER* configure this driver to operate at stratum
zero or at a stratum which might possibly disrupt a client with access
to a bona fide primary server. *NEVER NEVER* configure a server which
might devolve to a local clock to be a multicast server, since this
might disrupt a considerable number of otherwise sane clients. This
hazard is one of the reasons multicast clients should always operate in
authenticated modes.
.PP
.B 127.127.3.u
\- Precision Standard Time/Traconex 1010/1020 WWV/H Receiver
.PP

This driver supports the PST/Traconex Time Source 1010 and 1020
WWV/WWVH,Synchronized Clock connected via a serial port. No specific
claim of accuracy is made for these receiver, but actual experience
suggests that 10 ms would be a conservative assumption. The driver
assumes the serial port device name is /dev/pst%d (i.e. unit 1, at
127.127.3.1, opens the clock at /dev/pst1) and that the clock is
configured for 9600-baud operation. It is very important that the year
be set correctly in the DIPswitches. Otherwise, the day of year can be
incorrect after 28 April of a normal or leap year.
.PP
127.127.4.u
\- Spectracom 8170 and Netclock/2 WWVB Synchronized Clocks
.PP
This driver supports the Spectracom Model 8170 and Netclock/2 WWVB
Synchronized Clock. This clock has proven a reliable source of time,
except in some cases of high ambient conductive RF interference. The
claimed accuracy of the clock is 100 usec relative to the broadcast
signal; however, in most cases the actual accuracy is limited by the
precision of the timecode and the latencies of the serial interface and
operating system.

The DIPswitches on this clock should be set to 24-hour display, AUTO DST
off, time zone 0 (UTC), data format 0 or 2 (see below) and baud rate
9600. If this clock is to used as the source for the IRIG Audio Decoder
(refclock_irig.c in this distribution), set the DIPswitches for AM IRIG
output and IRIG format 1 (IRIG B with signature control).
This driver does not need to be told which format (0 or 2) is in use \-
it figures out which one from the length of the message. A three-stage
median filter is used to reduce jitter and provide a dispersion measure.
The driver makes no attempt to correct for the intrinsic jitter of the
radio itself, which is a known problem with the older radios.
This driver can retrieve a table of quality data maintained internally
by the clock. If flag4 of the fudge configuration command is set to 1,
the driver will retrieve this table and write it to the clockstats file
on when the first timecode message of a new day is received.
.PP
.B 127.127.5.u
\- Kinemetrics/TrueTime Timing Receivers
.PP
This driver supports at least two models of Kinemetrics/TrueTime Timing
Receivers, the 468-DC MK III GOES Synchronized Clock and GPS-DC MK III
GPS Synchronized Clock and very likely others in the same model family
that use the same timecode formats. The clocks are connected via a
serial port. The driver assumes the serial port device name is
/dev/goes%d (i.e., unit 1 at 127.127.5.1 opens the clock at /dev/goes1)
and that the clock is configured for 9600-baud operation.
.PP
.B 127.127.6.0
\- IRIG-B Audio Decoder
.PP
This driver supports the Inter-Range Instrumentation Group standard
time-distribution signal IRIG-B using the audio codec native to the Sun
SPARCstation. This signal is generated by several radio clocks,
including those made by Austron, TrueTime, Odetics and Spectracom, among
others, although it is generally an add-on option. The signal is
connected via an attenuator box and cable to the audio codec input on a
Sun SPARCstation and requires a specially modified kernel audio driver.
Details are in the README.irig file in the ./doc directory of the xntp3
distribution. As only a single audio codec is built into a workstation,
the driver assumes the device name is /dev/irig0.
.PP
Timing jitter using the decoder and a Sun IPC is in the order of a few
microseconds, although the overal timing accuracy is limited by the
wander of the CPU oscillator used for timing purposes to a few hundred
microseconds. These figures are comparable with what can be achieved
using the 1-pps signal described in the pps.txt file in the ./doc
directory of the xntp3 distribution.
.PP
.B 127.127.7.u
\- CHU Modem Decoder
.PP
This driver supports a shortwave receiver and special modem circuitry
described in the ./gadget directory of the xntp3 distribution. It
requires the chu-clk line discipline or chu_clk STREAMS module described
in the ./kernel directory of that distribution. It is connected via a
serial port operating at 300 baud. Up to four units, with unit numbers
in the range 0 through 3, can be configured. The driver assumes the
serial port device name is /dev/chu%d (i.e., unit 1 at 127.127.7.1 opens
the clock at /dev/chu1).
.PP
Unlike the NIST time services, whose timecode requires quite specialized
hardware to interpret, the CHU timecode can be received directly via a
serial port after demodulation. While there are currently no known
commercial CHU receivers, the hardware required to receive the CHU
timecode is fairly simple to build. It is possible to configure up to
four CHU units simultaneously, opening the possibility of a multi-
channel diversity receiver, one channel dedicated to each of the three
CHU broadcast frequencies.
.PP
The
.B time1
option can be used to set the CHU propagation delay. compensate for
inherent latencies in the serial port hardware and operating system. The
default value is 0.0025 seconds, which is about right for Toronto.
Values for other locations can be calculated using the
.B propdelay
program in the util directory of the xntp3 distribution or equivalent
means.
.PP
The
.B flag1
option can be used to modifiy the averaging algorithm used to smooth the
clock indications. Ordinarily, the algorithm picks the median of a set
of samples, which is appropriate under conditions of poor to fair radio
propagation conditions. If the clock is located relatively close to the
WWV or WWVH transmitters, setting this flag will cause the algorithm to
average the set of samples, which can reduce the residual jitter and
improve accuracy.
.PP
.B 127.127.8.u
\- Synchronisation to several receivers (DCF77, GPS)
.PP
The timecode of these receivers is sampled via a STREAMS module in the
kernel (The STREAMS module has been designed for use with SUN Systems
under SunOS 4.1.x. It can be linked directly into the kernel or loaded
via the loadable driver mechanism). This STREAMS module can be adepted
to be able to convert different time code formats. If the daemon is
compiled without the STREAM definition synchronisation will work without
the Sun streams module, though accuracy is significantly degraded.
.br
The actual receiver status is mapped into various synchronisation states
generally used by receivers. The STREAMS module is configured to
interpret the time codes of DCF U/A 31, PZF535, GPS166, Trimble SV6 GPS,
ELV DCF7000, Schmid and low cost receivers (see list below).
.br
The reference clock support in xntp contains the necessary configuration
tables for those receivers. In addition to supporting up to 32 different
clock types and 4 devices, the generation a a PPS signal is also
provided as an configuration option. The PPS configuration option uses
the receiver generated time stamps for feeding the PPS loopfilter
control for much finer clock synchronisation.
.br
CAUTION: The PPS configuration option is different from the hardware PPS
signal, which is also supported (see below), as it controls the way
xntpd is synchronised to the reference clock, while the hardware PPS
signal controls the way time offsets are determined.
.br
The use of the PPS option requires receivers with an accuracy of better
than 1ms.
.PP
Fudge factors
.PP
Only two fudge factors are utilized. The
.I time1
fudge factor defines the phase offset of the sychnronisation character
to the actual time. On the availability of PPS information the
.B time2
fudge factor defines the skew between the PPS time stamp and the
receiver timestamp of the PPS signal. This parameter is usually zero, as
usually the PPS signal is believed in time and OS delays should be
corrected in the machine specific section of the kernel driver.
.B time2
needs only be set when the actial PPS signal is delayed for some reason.
The
.B flag0
enables input filtering. This a median filter with continuous sampling.
The
.B flag1
selects averaging of the samples remaining after the filtering. Leap
secondhandling is controlled with the
.B flag2.
When set a leap second will be deleted on receipt of a leap second
indication from the receiver. Otherwise the leap second will be added,
(which is the default).
.PP
.IR ntpq (8)
timecode variable
.PP
The
.I ntpq
program can read clock variables command list several variables. These
hold the following information:
.I refclock_time
is the local time with the offset to UTC (format HHMM). The currently
active receiver flags are listed in
.I refclock_status.
Additional feature flags of the receiver are optionally listed in
paranthesis. The actual time code is listed in
.I timecode.
A qualification of the decoded time code format is following in
.I refclock_format.
The last piece of information is the overall running time and the
accumulated
times for the clock event states in
.I refclock_states.
When PPS information is present additional variable are available.
.I refclock_ppstime
lists then the PPS timestamp and
.I refclock_ppsskew
lists the difference between RS232 derived timestamp and the PPS
timestamp.
.PP
Unit encoding
.PP
The unit field <u> encodes the device, clock type and the PPS generation
option. There are 4 possible units, which are encoded in the lower two
bits of the <u> field. The devices are named
.IR /dev/refclock-0
through
.IR /dev/refclock-3 .
Bits 2 thru 6 encode the clock type. The fudge factors of the clock type
are taken from a table
.I clockinfo
in refclock_parse.c. The generation of PPS information for disciplining
the local NTP clock is encoded in bit 7 of <u>.
.PP
Currently, nine clock types (devices /dev/refclock-0 - /dev/refclock-3)
are supported.
.Ip 127.127.8.0-3 16
Meinberg PZF535 receiver (FM demodulation/TCXO / 50us)
.Ip 127.127.8.4-7 16
Meinberg PZF535 receiver (FM demodulation/OCXO / 50us)
.Ip 127.127.8.8-11 16
Meinberg DCF U/A 31 receiver (AM demodulation / 4ms)
.Ip 127.127.8.12-15 16
ELV DCF7000 (sloppy AM demodulation / 50ms)
.Ip 127.127.8.16-19 16
Walter Schmid DCF receiver Kit (AM demodulation / 1ms)
.Ip 127.127.8.20-23 16
RAW DCF77 100/200ms pulses (Conrad DCF77 receiver module / 5ms)
.Ip 127.127.8.24-27 16
RAW DCF77 100/200ms pulses (TimeBrick DCF77 receiver module / 5ms)
.Ip 127.127.8.28-31 16
Meinberg GPS166 receiver (GPS / <<1us)
.Ip 127.127.8.32-35 16
Trimble SV6 GPS receiver (GPS / <<1us)
.PP
The reference clock support carefully monitors the state transitions of
the receiver. All state changes and exceptional events such as loss of
time code transmission are logged via the
.I syslog
facility. Every hour a summary of the accumulated times for the clock
states is listed via syslog.
.PP
PPS support is only available when the receiver is completely
synchronised. The receiver is believed to deliver correct time for an
additional period of time after losing sychronisation, unless a
disruption in time code transmission is detected (possible power loss).
The trust period is dependent on the receiver oscillator and thus a
function of clock type. This is one of the parameters in the
.I clockinfo
field of the reference clock implementation. This parameter cannot be
configured by xntpdc.
.PP
In addition to the PPS loopfilter control a true PPS hardware signal can
be applied on Sun Sparc stations via the CPU serial ports on the CD pin.
This signal is automatically detected and will be used for offset
calculation. The input signal must be the time mark for the following
time code. (The edge sensitivity can be selected - look into the
appropriate kernel/parsestreams.c for details). Meinberg receivers can
be connected by feeding the PPS pulse of the receiver via a 1488 level
converter to Pin 8 (CD) of a Sun serial zs\-port.
.PP
There exists a special firmware release for the PZF535 Meinberg
receivers. This release (PZFUERL 4.6 (or higher - The UERL is
important)) is absolutely recommended for XNTP use, as it provides LEAP
warning, time code time zone information and alternate antenna
indication. Please check with Meinberg for this firmware release. For
the Meinberg GPS166 receiver is also a special firmaware release
available (Uni-Erlangen). This release must be used for proper
operation.
.PP
The raw DCF77 pulses can be fed via a level converter directly into Pin
3 (Rx) of the Sun. The telegrams will be decoded an used for
synchronisation. AM DCF77 receivers are running as low as $25. The
accuracy is dependent on the receiver and is somewhere between 2ms
(expensive) to 10ms (cheap). Upon bad signal reception of DCF77
sychronisation will cease as no backup oscillator is available as
usually found in other reference clock receivers. So it is important to
have a good place for the DCF77 antenna. For transmitter shutdowns you
are out of luck unless you have other NTP servers with alternate time
sources available.
.PP
127.127.9.u
\- Magnavox MX4200 Navigation Receiver used as GPS Synchronized Clocks
.PP
This driver supports the Magnavox MX4200 Navigation Receiver adapted to
precision timing applications. This requires an interface box described
in the ./ppsclock directory of the xntp3 distribution. It is connected
via a serial port and requires the ppsclock STREAMS module described in
the same directory. The driver assumes the serial port device name is
/dev/gps%d (i.e., unit 1 at 127.127.9.1 opens the clock at /dev/gps1)
and that the clock is configured for 9600-baud operation.
.PP
127.127.10.u
\- Austron 2200A/2201A GPS/LORAN Synchronized Clock and Timing Receiver
.PP
This driver supports the Austron 2200A/2201A GPS/LORAN Synchronized
Clock and Timing Receiver connected via a serial port. It supports
several special features of the clock, including the Input Burffer
Module, Output Buffer Module, IRIG-B Interface Module and LORAN Assist
Module. It requires the RS232 Serial Interface module for communication
with the driver. The driver assumes the serial port device name is
/dev/gps%d (i.e., unit 1 at 127.127.10.1 opens the clock at /dev/gps1)
and that the clock is configured for 9600-baud operation.
.PP
This receiver is capable of a comprehensive and large volume of
statistics and operational data. The specific data collection commands
and attributes are embedded in the driver source code; however, the
collection process can be enabled or disabled using the
.B flag4
flag. If set, collection is enabled; if not, which is the default, it is
disabled. A comprehensive suite of data reduction and summary scripts is
in the ./scripts/stats directory of the xntp3 program distribution.
.PP
To achieve the high accuracy this device provides, it is necessary to
use the ppsclock feature (flag3) of the xntp3 program distribution or,
alternatively, to install the kernel modifications described in the
./doc/README.kern file in that distribtutions. The clock can be wired to
provide time to a single CPU or bussed in parallel to several CPUs, with
one CPU controlling the receiver and the others just listening. Fair
accuracy can be achieved in the single-CPU configuration without use of
the 1-pps signal, but in multiple CPU configurations accuracy is
severely degraded without it.
.PP
127.127.11.u
\- Kinemetrics/TrueTime OMEGA-DC OMEGA Synchronized Clock
.PP
This driver supports the Kinemetrics/TrueTime OMEGA-DC OMEGA
Synchronized Clock connected via a serial port. This clock is
sufficiently different from other Kinemetrics/TrueTime models that a
separate driver is required. The driver assumes the serial port device
name is /dev/omega%d (i.e., unit 1 at 127.127.11.1 opens the clock at
/dev/omega1) and that the clock is configured for 9600-baud operation.
.PP
127.127.12.0
\- KSI/Odeteics TPRO IRIG-B Decoder
.PP
This driver supports the KSI/Odeteics TPRO and TPRO-SAT IRIG-B Decoder,
which is a module connected directly to the SBus of a Sun workstation.
The module works with the IRIG-B signal generated by several radio
clocks, including those made by Austron, TrueTime, Odetics and
Spectracom, among others, although it is generally an add-on option. In
the case of the TPRO-SAT, the module is an integral part of a GPS
receiver, which serves as the primary timing source. As only a single
module of this type can be used on a single workstation, only the unit
number 0 is acceptable. The driver assumes the device name is
/dev/tpro0.
.PP
Using the TPRO interface as a NTP reference clock provides precision
time only to
.I xntpd
and its clients. With suitable kernel modifications, it is possible to
use the TPRO as the CPU system clock, avoiding errors introduced by the
CPU clock oscillator wander. See the README.kernel and kern.c files in
the ./doc directory of the xntp3 program distribution for further
details.
.PP
127.127.13.u
\- Leitch CSD 500 Controller with HP 5061A Atomic Clock
.PP
This driver supports the Leitch CSD 500 Controller and HP 5061A Atomic
Clock or equivalent primary timing source and connected via a serial
port. The driver assumes the serial port device name is /dev/leitch%d
(i.e., unit 1 at 127.127.13.1 opens the clock at /dev/leitch1) and that
the clock is configured for 300-baud operation.
.PP
127.127.14.u
\- EES M201 MSF receiver
.PP
This driver supports the EES M201 MSF receiver connected to a Sun
SPARCstation running SunOS 4.x with the "ppsclock" STREAMS module.
.PP
If flag1 is set, then the system clock is assumed to be sloppy (e.g.
Sun4 with 20ms clock), so samples are averaged. If flag2 is set, then
leaphold is set. If flag3 is set, then the sample information is dumped.
If flag4 is set, then the input data is smoothed, and all data points
are used.
.PP
127.127.15.u
\- Kinimetrics/Truetime GPSTM/TMD Receiver
.PP
[description not available]
.PP
127.127.16.u
\- Bancomm
.PP
[description not available]
.PP
127.127.17.u
\- Datam Precision Time Standard
.PP
[description not available]
.PP
127.127.18.u
\- NIST Automated Computer Time Service
.PP
[in development]
.PP
127.127.19.u
\- Heath GC-1000 Most Accurate Clock
.PP
This driver supports the Heath GC-1000 Most Accurate Clock, with RS232C
Output Accessory. This is a WWV/WWVH receiver somewhat less robust than
other supported receivers. Its claimed accuracy is 100 ms when actually
synchronized to the broadcast signal, but this doesn't happen even most
of the time, due to propagation conditions, ambient noise sources, etc.
When not synchronized, the accuracy is at the whim of the internal clock
oscillator, which can wander into the sunset without warning. Since the
indicated precision is 100 ms, expect a host synchronized only to this
thing to wander to and fro, occasionally being rudely stepped when the
offset exceeds the default CLOCK_MAX of 128 ms.
The internal DIPswitches should be set to operate at 1200 baud in MANUAL
mode and the current year. In MANUAL mode the clock responds to a rising
edge of the RTS modem control line by sending the timecode. The external
DIPswitches should be set to GMT and 24-hour format. The driver assumes
the serial port device name is /dev/heath%d (i.e., unit 1 at
127.127.19.1 opens the clock at /dev/heath1)
.SH VARIABLES
Most variables used by the NTP protocol can be examined with the
.I xntpdc
(mode 7 messages) and the
.I ntpq
(mode 6 messages). Currently very few variables can be modified via mode
6 messages. These variables are either created with the
.I setvar
directive or the leap warning variables. The leap warning bits that can
be set in the
.B leapwarning
variable (up to one month ahead). Both, the
.B leapwarning and in the
.B leapindication
variable, have a slightly different encoding than the usual
.B leap
bits interpretation:
.P
.Ip 00 8
The daemon passes the leap bits of its synchronisation source (usual
mode of operation).
.Ip 01/10 8
A leap second is added/deleted (operator forced leap second).
.Ip 11 8
Leap information from the sychronisation source is ignored (thus
LEAP_NOWARNING is passed on).
.PP
.SH FILES
.Ip /etc/ntp.conf 20
the default name of the configuration file
.Ip /etc/ntp.drift 20
the conventional name of the drift file
.Ip /etc/ntp.keys 20
the conventional name of the key file
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.IR xntpdc (8),
.IR ntpq (8),
.IR ntpdate (8)
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Written by Dennis Ferguson at the University of Toronto. Text amended by
David Mills at the University of Delaware.
.SH BUGS
.PP
.I xntpd
has gotten rather fat. While not huge, it has gotten larger than might
be desireable for an elevated\-priority daemon running on a workstation,
particularly since many of the fancy features which consume the space
were designed more with a busy primary server, rather than a high
stratum workstation, in mind.
